+++
date = '2025-06-07'
draft = false
title = 'Weeknotes #5'
+++

* We launched The Worst Community Report this week! The first episode is available on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zV7Jwl6E6Rw) and most major podcast platforms. This is a project that came together rapidly, but I'm still very proud of what we've done. 
* I'm learning Reaper in order to edit the show. It's really complex, but I greatly enjoy using it and look forward to making the show sound better and better!
* I built a Lily58 from Typeractive.xyz. It's a split format keyboard intended to be more ergonomic. I'm writing these notes with it and am trying to force myself to really learn how to use it quickly. My typing speed is heavily handicapped by the board currently, but I can feel myself learning it. It's strange to learn this and realize that I hardly use my pinkies to type, vastly preferring to slide my hands sideways to use my ring fingers. A post will be incoming as I learn the layout and decide if I like it.
* I started my new job! I had headaches after the first two days, but I think drinking more water will help. I may have to investigate if I can set up my own tea station. Their beverage game is *weak*.

## Playing:

* I started Haste: Broken Worlds yesterday. The characters are neat, and the mechanics are pretty solid. It's kind of a roguelike 3D platformer. It's pretty good. Feels kind of B-game-ey in a good way.

## Listening

* Nothing particularly new here, but [Perpetua](https://friendsatthetable.net) continues to be really good with extremely Final Fantasy IX vibes.

## Reading

* I honestly haven't read as much as I'd like to this week. I'm thinking I want to set up Calibre or AudioBook Shelf or something and start reading more books again,

## Videos

* Stephen posted a new [video](https://youtu.be/DLsZB0TNSfY) on Ace Attorney that is really great. I've wanted to get into more visual novels. Maybe Ace Attorney will be a good way in for me.
