+++
date = "2025-10-30"
draft = false
title = "Weeknotes #16"
+++

## Weeknotes Returns!

It has been a long few months, but I am happy to say my Weeknotes are back! It has been quite the journey since last I wrote, but here's the short version. As mentioned in [the How Taming Knots Works](/posts/2025-05-16-newsite/) post, Taming Knots is a folder of markdown files that [Hugo](https://gohugo.io) converts into pretty, static HTML for me. Previously, this was all happening through GitHub Actions and deployed to GitHub Pages. I want to eventually move off of GitHub as much as I possibly can, so I have tried a few different things. I tried moving to [Codeberg Pages](https://docs.codeberg.org/codeberg-pages/), I tried to move to [Gitea](https://about.gitea.com/) and use their Actions pipeline to deploy to [Cloudflare Pages](https://pages.cloudflare.com/). I even looked at GitLab for a bit. Eventually though, I decided the juice wasn't worth the squeeze right at this second and that the tinkering was getting in the way of the writing, so I settled everything back down into a setup where I feel like I can move away easily if I need to, but also I can continue to write while I do more research on a better option long term. Taming Knots is still a bunch of markdown files that get uploaded to a Github Repo, but now instead of building and hosting through GitHub, I have Cloudflare Pages watching for changes to the repo and building and deploying the site when it detects a commit. Being on Cloudflare means that I can easily pull the Github piece out and replace it with GitLab if I so choose or I can use any other "Actions" style worker to run Cloudflare's Wrangler tool to package up and deploy the website from many other code ops platform, including Gitea which may make a comeback eventually. All that to say I basically made a big loop, but now I feel more ready to go on the second journey eventually.

## Moving!

Another reason my weeknotes have lapsed is that I'm moving! We are selling the house out in the boonies and moving to a much more affordable place for the next year or two. As you can imagine, packing up the entire house and getting it ready for sale is taking up a lot of my time. Thankfully, this stress will be significantly lessened soon, so my weeknotes and other writing can resume.

## Projects

I've finally gotten my home server into a spot I'm really happy with. I hope it's easy for me to quickly set back up post-move. I've set everything up to be fairly portable. You can read more about it [In my Home Server post](/posts/2025-10-30-the-home-server).

## Playing

* Alan Wake II - I've been really enjoying this one. I love the wide variety in tones that are clearly separated by the characters. Having one character working with a more unsteady and often silly tone while the other does very serious, intense investigation is a fantastic combination.
* Easy Delivery Co. - When I don't have the brain power for Alan Wake, I've been playing this fun winter delivery game. It's got fun physics and definitely fits into the "drive a shitty car" genre of vehicle games that I enjoy so very much.
* Ridge Racer 2 - A game for when I truly do not want to have to use brain at all. Cars go fast. Do cool drifts. My PSP is so pretty.

## Reading

* Still working my way through *House of Leaves* by Mark Z Danielewski. I'd estimate I'm about a third of the way through it. It's tough to tell becuase there's a lot of flipping back and forth.

## Watching

* Twin Peaks - Emily and I have finished the first two seasons and the movie. We talked about it [On the podcast](https://twcr-radio.online/episodes/sexual-maturity-and-superhuman-strength-makes-mike-a-sub) for a few hours. I'm excited to get back to it and watch The Return.
* City the Animation - Still plucking away at this. It's extremely good, I just haven't gotten to it as often as I'd like.