+++
date = "2025-08-23"
draft = false
title = "Weeknotes #15"
+++

I know I missed last week and the week before was late. I have had very little time to myself lately.   I'm glad to be back writing though and I even have some additional posts in the works!

* We're still working on new house stuff, but thinking we will probably end up staying with my parents for a little longer than expected. I'm still cautious, but it's nice to hear folks tell us that what we want is possible.

* I successfully deployed Calibre Web Automated this week. The home server is slowly approaching its final form for the time being. Just need to fix FreshRss, figure out a good photos workflow, and roll out AudioBookShelf, then set up backup with backblaze. I have a couple months before my deadline though.

* The huge start of school wave at work isn't over, but it has receded a lot. We're now in ticket catch up mode. My queue is still around a hundred tickets, but I'm making progress.

* I don't know if it will guarantee me a promotion yet, but the guy directly above me at work is leaving in three weeks. It's sad to see him go, but I'm excited to see if I can capitalize on the opportunity.

## Playing

* Toree 3D: a neat little platformer in the "N64 inspired" category. Solid foundation, but a bit slow. I had a good time, but not as good as the time I had playing

* Toree 2: The sequel to Toree 3D with a moderate glow-up. Some new mechanics make it feel better, but not quite as good as

* Toree Saturn: The Sonic Adventure-ized version of Toree. An excellent set of mechanics and a massive improvement on many things that were great in the first two games.

* 20 Small mazes: What it says on the tin. I had a delightful time with this one. Looking forward to Strange Jigsaws later today.

## Reading

* Oliver VII: I'm early on, but like the style so far. There's not a ton to comment on quite yet.

## Watching

* Continuing with Twin Peaks Season 2. The more I watch, the more soap opera it feels, but I'm still interested in seeing where it goes.

* City the Animation: When I catch my wife in the right mood for it, we watch an episode and end up laughing hysterically. If it isn't hitting for you, watch it with someone.

* Ferris Beuller's Day Off: One of my comfort films. I still love it a lot. After a very rough week, it was nice to watch something comfortable and familiar.


