+++
date = "2025-07-21"
draft = false
title = "Weeknotes #11"
+++

* I forgot to mark this one as not a draft on Saturday. Oops

* I finally feel like i'm getting into the swing of things at work. I'm completing most tasks easily, and enjoying my time. In a couple weeks, i'll be working five days a week again though, which is a bummer. I guess this gives me something to look forward to next summer though.

* We recorded and interview with a few of the game jam participants for the summer jam. It was a great time! I'm excited to get the episode edited tomorrow.

* My brain has a disease and that disease is telling me I should start from scratch on my linux desktop and install Arch directly and re-configure Hyprland and everything else from scratch. I don't rightly know how much EndeavourOS changes from Arch upstream, so I probably *shouldn't* do it, but I also think it would be beneficial for me to take what I've learned from the last few months and start over knowing what I want to use and how I want it configured. Get rid of some of the cruft, so to speak.

## Watching

* The second episode of City the Animation. I think I like it even more than the first episode. I hope this trend continues. There's not much to add to my impressions from last week.

* Ford v Ferrari. It was fine, but the story felt exceptionally rushed. It feels like this would have been much better as six or eight one-hour TV episodes.

## Playing

* I started Planetarian HD for the podcast. It's an interesting look into VN history. I'm excited to talk to Rinoa about it.

* I played a bunch of Dr. Robotnik's Ring Racers. It's a mod of Sonic Robo Blast 2, which is a sequel to Sonic Robo Blast which itself is a Sonic fangame made in the Doom and Doom 2 engine. It has some really interesting mechanics to encourage players to use items quickly and seems to have a slightly higher skill ceiling than Mario Kart.
