+++
date = '2025-07-05'
draft = true
title = 'Weeknotes #9'
+++

* A short week this week. I worked Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and then only for a couple hours on Thursday thanks to the Fourth of July holiday. It's nice to have a bit of a break.
* We got Sophie some CBD oil to try and curb her anxiety during the fireworks.

## Playing

* Soul Hackers 2. I wrote a play log for SH2 with my initial thoughts. You can find it [here](https://tk-web.top/posts/2025-07-01-playlog-sh2-1/). Overall I'm liking it a fair bit!

* Dice Throne. An interesting dice combat boardgame introduced to me by my coworkers. We played an X-Men set. It was interesting, but not completely my bag. Might be better with more experience. It's tough to tell.

* Kiri-Ai: The Duel. A very simple game, but very fun and strategic. It gave me a lot of Street Fighter vibes. It's a carrd game where players take the roles of samurai in a duel. Each player has mostly the same cards, so the game is a lot about reading your opponent and anticipating their moves. I really enjoyed it and will probably pick up a copy for myself.

## Watching

* Finished the original Star Wars trilogy with my wife. It was fun to revisit, but I think I'm all Star Wars'd out for the time being. Andor will have to wait I think.

* Started and completed Stardust Telepath at Zeno's recommendation. It's a cute little show, but not really striking in any major way. Very much empty calories, but it's a genre I am a sucker for.

* My coworkers and I watched The Old Guard and the new sequel since this week was so slow. The first is an interesting movie. Definitely has some faults in the plot, but the action was decent. They definitely do the over-cut action scenes though. The sequel was significantly worse, with retconned plot elements and lots of holes. 
