+++
date = '2025-05-17'
draft = true
title = 'Weeknotes #2'
+++

* Got off of my six-day workweek last week and dove straight into a day and a half of cleaning the house and getting the yard back into shape. I was dead tired after, but this week has been more-ish relaxing, thankfully.

* I got a wonderful email from a reader and fellow blogger (Check out [Joel’s blog here](https://joelchrono.xyz/).) I’m sure he would say it isn’t much, but I do really appreciate the contact. It’s amazing how much motivation just one message gave me to keep going.

* I had three interviews this week. The first was with a law firm. I think I did well on it. The second was with a Managed Service Provider over the phone. I must have done well with it because they wanted to schedule a video interview the very next day. That video interview was the third one. ---- I had a fourth interview scheduled for a penetration testing company, but the rep dropped out last minute. I guess a meeting went over time. Hopefully we can re-connect sometime next week.

* Taming Knots has a new home! I love Pika.page, but I was interested in seeing what self-hosting a site would look like. Then I realized site hosting and email hosting are *the* two things I really don't want to do on my home server because they're annoying to set up and my ISP probably won't like me hosting on my personal connection. I opted for using Hugo with GitHub Pages instead. I don't love hosting it on GitHub, which is owned by Microsoft, but the documentation is just so much better when working with GitHub, so I'm kind of stuck. The nice thing is that storage space is not really a concern, especially given how light Hugo's sites are and as long as I stay under 30,000 files, I won't draw the ire of GitHub, so for now on a technical level, it's the perfect host for my little project, especially since the hosting is free.
