+++
date = '2025-06-22'
draft = false
title = 'Weeknotes #7'
+++

* Another week another set of late notes. Between the new job, the podcast, and everything else going on, I'm stretched a little thin. Thankfully, I'm getting better at editing the podcast quickly and the weekend plans are starting to let up, so I can look forward to some more time soon.
* I'm getting faster on the Lily58 with some practice. I'm not completely used to it yet, but I'm improving, which feels nice. I feel like my dream keyboard would be close to this, but with a few more keys. Maybe just one, actually. The esc key needing to be in the same row as the numbers causes a fair few problems, but I also don't think I'd want to give up a dedicated esc key. Decisions decisions
* It's hard to believe we're almost a full month into the Worst Community Report already. I'm having a ton of fun with it and I think this week's episode is going to be a banger!
* My new job is going well. I am being praised for the speed with which I pick things up, which feels nice. I'm thinking I won't have any trouble with the work. My one big anxiety is trying to remember all of the names and locations of the users. I hope that knowledge will come with time.
* It's been crazy hot the last few days. Summer is well and truly here. I passed on doing yardwork this weekend. It's just too hot. Hopefully next weekend is a little cooler so I can get some things done.

## Playing

* I played and finished Metal Gear Rising Revengeance for this month's Low Key Video Game Book Club. It's an interesting game. It feels very Platiunym, but limited by the Stealth Espionage Action of Metal Gear and Kojima's works. Thankfully I think the Metal Gear of it all re: alerts and stealth can be largely ignored.
* My next game is probably going to be completing Cyberpunk 2077. I have a lot of progress and I just need something to fill time until I get to the next game I know I'm playing for the Community Report.

## Watching

* My wife and I continue our journey through Twin Peaks. We just discovered who killed Laura Palmer with a large amount of time left in the series, so I'm very interested to see where it goes from here.
* I picked up Apocalypse Hotel on Emily and Zeno's recommendation. I love it so far! It's very cute and funny. I'm really interested in seeing where it goes.
