+++
date = '2025-06-15'
draft = false
title = 'Weeknotes #6'
+++

* Another light week thanks to the new job, and a busy weekend left me writing these notes a bit late.

* Continuing to learn and enjoy the Lily58. There's still some things that are tough to remember about the layout, but I'm getting faster at typing on it. I did realize that I messed up the placement and orientation of a couple of the tenting feet, so now I need to peel them off and put them on in a better spot, though the smoothness of the keycaps makes me not want to use it tented in the first place. Maybe something to learn over time.

* We recorded and released episode 2 of the Community Report this week. Community reception continues to be pretty good. I'm getting faster at the edit as well, though I neglected to complete it this weekend as planned. Looks like another week of focusing hard on the edit after work for me.

* Father's day was this weekend. We had my parents, my brother, and his husband over for brunch. It went pretty well. Fairly uneventful, but still nice to spend time together

## Playing

* Cast n Chill demo - A nice idle/casual fishing game with some of the prettiest pixel landscape art I've ever seen. I don't love the fishing mechanics, but the idle mode helps a lot with that. Plus it has a cute dog.

* Metal Gear Rising Revengeance - Started and finished this one this week. It was the lion's share of my gaming time. I enjoyed it quite a bit, but I don't think I'd like to go back to it like I do with other Platinum Games titles. It felt kind of like two things glued together, not mixed together if that makes sense. Platinum combat and Kojima weirdness, but the two never really meet.

* Ball X Pit demo - From everything I've seen from Next Fest, I think this is the roguelike to watch. Very polished with a fresh and interesting set of mechanics. Might not dethrone Balatro for me, but I'll be interested in playing the full release for sure.

* Bloodrush: Undying Wish demo - Another roguelike in a sea of them. It has some interesting ideas, but doesn't feel quite polished enough for me to stick to it long term. Definitely feels like the kind of game that the developer wants you to complete though. Still, it's very mush still in development, so it might get a good amount of tuning before release.

## Watching

* The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly - Probably my absolute favorite western, and a long one too. I've seen it more times than I can count thanks to my dad. Some incredible directing and performances here. If you like the genre but have never seen it, I highly recommend it.

## Reading

* I shamefully haven't been reading as much as I want to. I've had a bit of a rough week. I'm looking forward to maybe building or finding a cheap eink ereader to start going through more books, but I haven't done a ton of looking yet.


