+++
date = "2025-08-03"
draft = false
title = "Weeknotes #13"
+++

* A second rough week in a row. A debilitating migraine Thursday and a very late night Wednesday combined with a nice shouting match earlier in the week to really put a damper on things. I'm doing better now that it's the weekend.
* We did some yard work to fix up the front of the house yesterday. Planted some new shrubs and added a border ring to one of the trees. Probably going to do the other tree today after I mow. I'm looking forward to getting it done. The shrubs especially have looked bad for an entire year.
* I finally decided to ditch Nextcloud on the home server. It offered a lot of nice features, but it ran super slowly and was too heavy. I don't need enterprise features in a personal file server. So instead, I've deployed [Copyparty](https://github.com/9001/copyparty), which is a file server written in python and deployable in Docker. I haven't set everything up I want to with it, but I've got the basics working and I really like it so far. It does exactly what I need: provide access to my home server's file storage from anywhere. The next step for the home server is deploying a photo management solution that plays nice with Copyparty.
* I've set up my RG35XXSP again with MuOS Pixie. I'm going to start playing more games at work on my breaks. I love this little thing and the newest version of MuOS feels really great to use.
* I've decided that my experiment with Hyprland is at an end. As much as I like it, I also want my PC to be as approachable as possible for Emily, so I'm going to switch back to Plasma. This is going to come with a complete reinstall of the OS to clean things up a bit. I'm looking forward to finally excising Windows from my personal life and switching full time back to Plasma is the best way to do that I think.

## Playing

* More *Robotnik's Ring Racers*. I'm just about done with all of the cups in single player on the basic difficulty. There's *a lot* there within the base release not counting the community made tracks. I haven't even really looked at additional tracks for the game yet, but I'm excited to jump in with those eventually.
* I played a bunch of the [Worst Game Jam 3 submissions](https://itch.io/jam/the-worst-game-jam-3) *Ghost & Found* and *Along an Etremety* were big hits for me. I highly recommend you check them out!

## Watching

* We're still plugging away at *DanDaDan* Season 2 and *City the Animation*. We're enjoying both of them quite a lot. Once these are done, we'll probably return to *Twin Peaks*.
