+++
date = "2025-07-26"
draft = true
title = "weeknotes #12"
+++

* I've had a tough week. A death in the family last weekend has left me drained and unable to focus. We weren't what I would call close, so I feel very strange about it. We didn't have an antagonistic relationship, we just weren't close.
* Because of this, I've had weird ups and downs in my energy and ability to do things. Smaller tasks seem to be working better, but I've been too exhausted to do anything for multiple days.
* For the first time ever, the podcast was late this week. It's understandable why, but I really don't want to make this a habit. The podcast has been a really good way for me to stay busy and out of depressive holes. Emily probably thinks it's too much effort, but it's effort I want to put in.
* I wrote about my current mental state earlier this week. It felt good to express it, even if I did have to write in circles without addressing root causes. I particularly like a few turns of phrase I took in that post. I do also like where I can address the reader directly. Maybe I will begin to incorporate that into more of my writing from now on. It gives things a conversational quality I like. Only time will tell if it is an imitative voice, or a intentional, meaningful change.
* I disassembled my lathes more last weekend. I think there's no feasible way to combine or repair them. Perhaps turning will have to wait for a more permanent, more reliable addition to the workshop. I do not really have the time, energy, or money for the hobby right at this juncture. I do want to come back to it, though.

## Playing

* I started Planetarian HD for our next TWCR episode. I talked about my thoughts in my last [playlog](https://tk-web.top/posts/2025-07-21-playlog-phd) post. I'm looking forward to discussing it and VN history in general with Rinoa this weekend.

* While I have not started it yet, I have been assigned Citizen Sleeper by Emily, a co-host of TWCR. I told Jared to play Metroid Prime, and he told Emily to play Pokemon X or Y. I think we're going to check in with those in a couple months maybe? We'll see how the next few weeks go.

## Watching

* Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure - Emily and I needed a very well-trodden comfortable movie to watch before bed last night. Bill & Ted is a fun one, though maybe not my favorite. It did its job well. I had my best night of sleep all week thanks to the cooldown.

* Dan Da Dan season 2 continues to be pretty good. Emily is really enjoying it still, so I'm glad.
