+++
date = '2025-07-14'
draft = false
title = 'Weeknotes #10'
+++

* Finally hit double digit weeknotes and I haven't missed a single week (although I've been late a few weeks.) Writing regularly has been very helpful for me and I'm glad I started. I'm looking forward to writing more.
* I have started writing some of my posts while at work between other tasks. It's the slow season, so I'm not too worried about it. I installed my favorite .md editor on my work laptop and am using Github to synchronize my drafts and posts. It's been working surprisingly well. I want to be able to write personal emails on my work computer as well during downtime, so maybe the next step is installing Obsidian and just paying for their sync.
* I don't want to count my chickens, but I think I might get a job advancement opportunity soon. No more details for now, but it could come with a 5-7% raise, which would be really nice to have.
* I've decided to start working towards a CompTIA Network+ certification. It's a challenging subject for me, but I think the cert will serve me well and be well worth the studying.
* I finally got in touch with Typeractive about a replacement Lily58 tenting foot. Turns out their contact form didn't ever deliver my first message and they've been extremely responsive this time right away.
* I got new sunglasses! Having a thick prescription means I only get new ones every few years. My old ones were from 2022 or so. I accidentally ordered the wrong color of frames, but I like them anyway. It's not what I would pick for myself, but I think they still look good. I ended up getting them from Eyebuydirect because I like my normal glasses from them so much. 

## Playing

* Played and finished Loco Motive this week. I wrote a quick [playlog](https://tk-web.top/posts/2025-07-07-playlog-lm-1) about it, if you're curious. My overall impression was really positive. I got stuck less than I typically do in adventure games and really enjoyed the writing, art, and voice acting. A lovely game, overall.
* Briefly played Half Minute Hero for the PSP. I only played some of the early Hero levels, and like them, but I don't think it's going to have the staying power I want. Especially since a lot of the stuff *around* the actual game takes a long time to sit through comparatively.

## Watching

* Watched a lot more Apocalypse Hotel with my wife. I'm so glad she likes it. I think we'll probably finish it next week.

* Watched episode 1 of City The Animation. It's amazing to me how much different cityscape or establishing shots look in this series compared to anything else I've ever seen. The super-wide establishing shots make the entire city feel toyetic in a way I really enjoy. The use of color and detail also makes the series feel lush and vibrant in a way that other anime, whether made for TV or as movies, do not. I think this is due to a combination of very saturated colors, a focus on jewel tones, and high contrast with thick lines. Even if the writing and comedy don't carry it, I think I'll keep watching just for the visuals.

* Emily and I picked up DanDaDan Season 2. I liked the first couple of episodes a fair bit. I hope the series continues to be so well animated. Science Saru continues to do exceptional work. The shots where they are animating the splash pages especially are fantastic. I don't like the new opening quite as much, but it's going to be tough to top Creepy Nuts for this series.

* I also watched Office Space last night since it's such a common reference at work. I like it a fair bit. It being very short and concise helps a lot with my enjoyment of it.
