+++
date = "2025-11-10"
draft = false
title = "Weeknotes #17"
+++

A light week for notes. I'm still unpacking and settling in at the new place. Publishing these a little late because I ended up with less energy to write them than I thought.

## Tinkering

* I finally plugged in the big network switch I got from a coworker. I don't think it's going to be a good fit. It's just too loud.
* The wifi situation is awful at the new place and there's no good way to get ethernet by the desk. Looks like I'll be spending a little time working out a longer-range wifi setup. I've still got the network equipment from the old house, so maybe I try that stuff first and if it doesn't work straight away we get a second AP to use as a bridge or repeater.
* I upgraded my editing process for the podcast. It won't help in every episode, but for those it will help, the process improvements will make it significantly faster to edit. A massive thanks to Mike over in the TWG discord for his excellent guide.
* Speaking of the podcast, it's got a [snazzy new site!](https://twcr-radio.online/) A huge thanks to AJ for helping us with the move to Transistor.fm!
* I haven't started in earnest yet, but I did download the slicer for my dad's Prusa 3D printer. I'm excited to start making things with it.

## Playing

* Finished Alan Wake II and really enjoyed it. I really like what they're doing with cyclical storytelling here. I also love the dig at generative AI in the Lake House DLC. The entire thing makes me super excited to see what Remedy does next with Control.
* Started Yakuza Kiwami. My initial impressions are gneerally positive. It feels a lot faster and breezier than Yakuza 0 and Yakuza Like a Dragon, but my one big pain point remains from Yakuza 0 in that bosses are extremely spongey.

## Watching

* We've started Twin Peaks the Return. We're four episodes in and I am liking it a lot while also feeling like Lynch is taking things even slower than he did in the first two seasons. I'm sure we won't get explanations for everything, but I'll be excited to get whatever we do get. 