+++
date = "2025-11-01"
draft = true
title = "Weeknotes #16"
+++

## Weeknotes Returns!

It has been a long few months, but I am happy to say my Weeknotes are back! It has been quite the journey since last I wrote, but here's the short version. As mentioned in [the How Taming Knots Works](/posts/2025-05-16-newsite/) post, Taming Knots is a folder of markdown files that [Hugo](https://gohugo.io) converts into pretty, static HTML for me. Previously, this was all happening through GitHub Actions and deployed to GitHub Pages. I want to eventually move off of GitHub as much as I possibly can, so I have tried a few different things. I tried moving to [Codeberg Pages](https://docs.codeberg.org/codeberg-pages/), I tried to move to [Gitea](https://about.gitea.com/) and use their Actions pipeline to deploy to [Cloudflare Pages](https://pages.cloudflare.com/). I even looked at GitLab for a bit. Eventually though, I decided the juice wasn't worth the squeeze right at this second and that the tinkering was getting in the way of the writing, so I settled everything back down into a setup where I feel like I can move away easily if I need to, but also I can continue to write while I do more research on a better option long term. Taming Knots is still a bunch of markdown files that get uploaded to a Github Repo, but now instead of building and hosting through GitHub, I have Cloudflare Pages watching for changes to the repo and building and deploying the site when it detects a commit. Being on Cloudflare means that I can easily pull the Github piece out and replace it with GitLab if I so choose or I can use any other "Actions" style worker to run Cloudflare's Wrangler tool to package up and deploy the website from many other code ops platform, including Gitea which may make a comeback eventually. All that to say I basically made a big loop, but now I feel more ready to go on the second journey eventually.

## Moving!

Another reason my weeknotes have lapsed is that I'm moving! We are selling the house out in the boonies and moving to a much more affordable place for the next year or two. As you can imagine, packing up the entire house and getting it ready for sale is taking up a lot of my time. 